---
title: "existing digitally"
weight: 9
image: "/images/existing-digitally.jpg"
---

Existing digitally (2020) was created in the context of the Cyberspace and Image Economy class offered at Concordia University. The series looks to our past online identities that are often fragmented and exist without context to bring up issues of connect and disconnect with our present existing selves. It attempts to bridge the gap between past and present temporalities and virtual and physical realities through the re-enactment and embodiment of former internet identities. The series focusses in on the generation that spent a significant amount of their childhoods online at the same time as the birth of Myspace, Facebook and other social media platforms. Throughout my time online as a child I would explore different presentations of myself online. From changing middle and last names to names based off of celebrities or popular fictional characters such as “Cullen,” “Depp,” “Bilodeau,” “Scott,” etc., I was able to delve into a new type of mythical world. Jenny Jones was my “stage name” where I would brand my first ever prototype “memes” in which my fascination with exploring the combination of image and text began.

Sound in this project traverses through the screen in attempt to bring the virtual into the physical realm. By quite literally embodying text found online made by my former selves, I re-imagine a previous state of my virtual reality. Text is also important to me. In this series I re-create text as image to explore the qualities of the distinctly digital medium of typefaces. Digitization has also created the avenue for a new type of candid conversation, and they exist in a way that is available for re-entering.Throughout my project statement I notice my compartmentalization of past selves in the plural vs. present self. I think digitization has influenced this thinking as photo albums are sectionalized and images and text posts are set in a specific temporality with the use of a labelled date. Existing digitally, I think, can be extended to be relevant to all who have past internet identities. Here I am thinking of those algorithm apps that tell you your most used words in your Facebook statuses this year. Few make statuses anymore, but this train of thought could be an interesting road to go down when exploring past identities. I had sent friends and posted my childhood self singing Hey There Delilah and got many responses of my friends re-enacting my old video. I’m also interested in how others consume and understand not only their own past identities but the past identities of everyone else that are readily available online, existing at the same time as what we post of ourselves now. I touch upon this aspect by exploring conversations with old friends who I have split off from somewhere along the way and who I don’t speak to anymore. My organic memory of these individuals has been heavily influenced by the presence of their past and present online identities. I have the ability to access candid online conversations, not only exploring my own thoughts and feelings but also exploring the thoughts and emotions of my old friends.